Add glossary content (#1335)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/terms/cte.md

---
id: cte
title: CTE in SQL
displayText: CTE  
hoverSnippet: A Common Table Expression (CTE) is a temporary result set that can be used in a SQL query. Creating a CTE is essentially like making a temporary view that you can access throughout the rest of the query you are writing.
---

> In a formal sense, a Common Table Expression (CTE), is a temporary result set that can be used in a SQL query. In a less formal, more human-sense, we like to think of a CTE as a separate, smaller query within the larger query you’re building up. Creating a CTE is essentially like making a temporary <Term id="view" /> that you can access throughout the rest of the query you are writing. Ultimately, you can use CTEs to break up complex queries into simpler blocks of code that can connect and build on each other.

Author: I wonder if you should start with this "why"  It might help readers understand the rest which really describes "what" CTEs do.

> Ultimately, you can use CTEs to break up complex queries into simpler blocks of code that can connect and build on each other."

Reviewer: That's a good point! Let me do that.

Reviewer: Done!

> In a formal sense, a Common Table Expression (CTE), is a temporary result set that can be used in a SQL query. In a less formal, more human-sense, we like to think of a CTE as a separate, smaller query within the larger query you’re building up. Creating a CTE is essentially like making a temporary <Term id="view" /> that you can access throughout the rest of the query you are writing. Ultimately, you can use CTEs to break up complex queries into simpler blocks of code that can connect and build on each other.

Author: * Do we need to say "building up?" or are we just building the query?

* "temporary result set" feels pretty dense, but is it an industry term? 

* It would help non-native English speakers if we write in the active voice. For example:
```suggestion
A SQL query uses a Common Table Expression (CTE) as a temporary result set. In a less-formal, more human-sense, a CTE is separate, smaller query within the larger query you’re building up. Creating a CTE is like making a temporary <Term id="view" /> that you can access throughout the rest of the query you are writing. Ultimately, you can use CTEs to break up complex queries into simpler blocks of code that can connect and build on each other.
```

There are two-types of CTEs: recursive and non-recursive. This glossary focuses on non-recursive CTEs.

> ## Why you should care about CTEs

Author: ```suggestion
## Why you should care about CTEs?
```

Reviewer: This is actually an independent clause. "Why you should care" vs. "Why should you care?"

Author: 😆 good catch!

Have you ever read through a query and thought:

- “What does this part of the query do?” 
- “What are all the sources referenced in this query? Why did I reference this dependency?”
- “My query is not producing the results I expect and I’m not sure which part of the query is causing that.”

> These thoughts often arise when we’ve written SQL queries and models that utilize complex business logic, references and joins multiple upstream dependencies, and are not outputting expected results. In a nutshell, these thoughts can occur often when you’re trying to write data models!

Author: This first sentence feels off. Maybe the list is not parallel or a word is missing? 
```suggestion
These thoughts often arise when we’ve written SQL that utilizes complex business logic and references and joins multiple upstream dependencies, but they are not outputting expected results. In a nutshell, these thoughts can occur often when you’re trying to write data models!
```

Reviewer: Yeah that's true. I don't think Kira was trying to make a list here, I think its just a wordy sentence. I played around with the wording a bit. Does that read better to you?

Author: Yes! Thank you! Riffing on your version, we could rewrite to the 2nd person to match the last sentence of that paragraph:
> You might think these thoughts when writing SQL that utilizes complex business logic and references and joins multiple upstream dependencies, but the queries are not outputting expected results. In a nutshell, these thoughts can occur often when you’re trying to write data models!

I'm also curious is the "they" referring to "queries?" (I assumed yes when I rewrote it above). When we translate the docs, it will be super useful to be specific with the noun because it will help reduce ambiguity.

Reviewer: To be honest, I can't find the "they" you are referring to here 😅

    select

        id as customer_id,
        lower(first_name) as customer_first_name,
        lower(last_name) as customer_last_initial

    from {{ ref('raw_customers') }}
  
)

select * from rename_columns
```

In this query above, we first create a CTE called `rename_columns` where we conduct a 
simple `SELECT` statement that renames and lower cases some columns from a `raw_customers` <Term id="table" />/model. The final `select * from rename_columns` selects all results from the `rename_columns` CTE.

While we don’t always think of CTEs as having classical arguments like SQL functions, we’ve got to call the necessary inputs for CTEs something. 

- CTE_EXPRESSION_NAME: This is the name of the CTE you can reference in other CTEs or SELECT statements. In our example, `rename_columns` is the CTE_EXPRESSION_NAME. **If you are using multiple CTEs in one query, it’s important to note that each CTE_EXPRESSION_NAME must be unique.**
- CTE_QUERY: This is the `SELECT` statement whose result set is produced by the CTE. In our example above, the `select … from {{ ref(‘raw_customers’) }}` is the CTE_QUERY. The CTE_QUERY is framed by parenthesis.

## When to use CTEs

> The primary motivation to implement CTEs in your code is to simplify the complexity of your queries and increase your code’s readability. There are other great benefits to using CTEs in your queries which we’ll outline below

Author: ```suggestion
The primary motivation to implement CTEs in your code is to simplify the complexity of your queries and increase your code’s readability. There are other great benefits to using CTEs in your queries which we’ll outline below.
```

| USER_ID | COUNT_ORDERS | BUYER_TYPE |
|---|---|---|
| 3 | 3 | super_buyer |
| 64 | 1 | single_buyer |
| 94 | 2 | regular_buyer |

>If you are finding yourself using the same code for a certain CTE across multiple 
queries or models, that’s probably a good sign that CTE should be its own [model](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/building-a-dbt-project/building-models) or view.

## CTE vs Subquery

A <Term id="subquery" /> is a nested query that can oftentimes be used in place of a CTE. Subqueries have different syntax than CTEs, but often have similar use cases. We won’t go too deep into subqueries here, but we’ll highlight some of the main differences between CTEs and subqueries below.

| CTE | Subquery |
|---|---|
| Typically more readable since CTEs can be used to give structure to your query | Typically less readable, especially if there are many nested queries |
| Allows for recursiveness | Does not allow for recursiveness |
| CTEs must have unique CTE_EXPRESSION_NAMES when used in a query | Subqueries don’t always have to be explicitly named |
| CTEs cannot be used in a `WHERE` clause | Subqueries can be used in a `WHERE` clause |

## Data warehouse support for CTEs

> CTEs are likely to be supported across most, if not all, [modern data warehouses](https://blog.getdbt.com/future-of-the-modern-data-stack/). Please use this table to see more information about using CTEs in your specific data warehouse.

Author: If you make this sentence active, it's more accessible to non-native English speakers: "Most modern data warehouses will likely support CTEs..."

| Data Warehouse | Support CTEs? |
|---|---|
|[Snowflake](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/queries-cte.html) | :white_check_mark: |
|[AWS Redshift](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/r_WITH_clause.html) | :white_check_mark: |
|[Google BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/query-syntax) | :white_check_mark: |
|[Databricks](https://docs.databricks.com/sql/language-manual/sql-ref-syntax-qry-select-cte.html) | :white_check_mark: |
|[Postgres](https://www.postgresqltutorial.com/postgresql-cte/) | :white_check_mark: |

> ## TL;DR

Author: Should the tl;dr be up front included in the definition?

Reviewer: These sections were supposed to add some kind of conclusion to the content. It feels a little duplicative to add it at the top since it most mirrors the main definition at the top. I feel like we have two options here:

1. Change the header name to "Conclusion" so it's more clear.
2. Remove these sections altogether if we feel like they are too duplicative. 

What do you think?

Author: Oh, got it! I like the idea of a summary.

Reviewer: Cool, I'll go ahead and changes.
